Oh, boy, look at that.
It actually has flies in it, huh?
And how old are these?
Well, these are not that old, but this is, ah, this came out of Chicago.
I don't remember.
This flies in it.
Yeah, this is the,
Dairydale.
Well, the Dairydale process.
Right.
This is the toughest one in the Dairydale.
And how do you collect other Dairydales?
No.
I bought this one because I thought it was so unique at the time.
It wasn't very expensive.
1935.
So I had some books on fishing.
And so I bought this thing.
Just because it looked right.
It's beautiful.
On this thing.
You know, it's, what can I say?
You know, everyone has their own little quirks.
And I don't drink, you know what I mean?
And I don't gamble.
I don't play tennis or golf or any of that stuff.
And the college, they never really stressed any of this stuff.
And I always maintained that the professors were dull, dull, dull, right?
And it's so interesting when you could get into it a little bit.
So very interesting that, you know, what really is in the background on all of this stuff, you know what I mean?
This one here is by
Francis O'Brien.
Did you know him up in Portland, Maine?
No.
He just died a few years.
He was a premier book dealer in Maine.
And I met him.
My daughter was up there.
When she first went there, we just took the phone book and started to go around.
Walked into Francis's place, became good, good friends.
I didn't know.
We got the Streeter catalog.
I've got Bradley Martin's Streeter catalog.
I bought that.
I bought that at the sale.
Sam?
Yep.
If you look in American Book Prices Current, that's the one they'll have, and that's the one I bought.
The only thing he didn't have was the index, which I then bought from Bill Reese.
I knew most of these guys at that time.
They were all at Jack Barfield's.
Yeah, well, Decker, that whole group, it was all at Barfield's.
Yeah.
You've got some wonderful bindings here, I have to say.
And, you know, these guys were fascinating.
You know, after the auctions, I'll give you an idea.
You know, Bartfield went heavy.
He was color plate books, bronzes, Western Americans.
We went to an auction once, and they had a couple of great paintings.
You know, at that time, Sotheby's or Park Burnett,
would have a, you know, they'd have a great item, lead up to it, and they'd give you a breather and then another great item.
And so Pete and I were up there.
We don't dress well.
Jack doesn't dress well.
I mean, he all smoked a cigar in the ice.
Pete didn't give a shit about anything.
And I only wore raincoats, right?
And we went into this auction, and Jack always had three seats reserved in the balcony, right?
And we came in, and there were a couple of New York boys, the whole shtick.
And we sit down, one says to the other one, so I can hear, you know, anyone can come into these auctions.
That's right.
It's free entertainment.
I mean, I went to all of them when I was writing my book.
He said, anyone can come in.
So the auction started, and these guys bought a couple of paintings for a couple of thousand, and they thought they were big-time operators, until the first Western came up.
And Jack always used a lead pencil, and he just stood there like that.
Until it was hammered down to him.
Hammered down to Jack.
And then the second lesson came up.
And Jack was there with his number two, like this, see?
And Jack, of course, bought it.
And that's all we were there for.
He said, OK, let's go.
And we walk out.
Now, Jack walks out.
Peter, I turn around to these guys,
I looked at them, they looked at me, and I said, I'm leaving the rest of the dreck to you.
Now, everyone went across the street in a hotel.
Jack Kennedy used to have his room over there.
I forget the name of the damn hotel right now.
And they have this big table reserve for the book dealers, or the art dealers.
They all met there.
Not the Waldorf Astoria, because it's Christie's.
No, no, no, no.
This was, they got it across the street.
They had all the chairs set up.
It was standard.
Every book or art where Jack was involved, that table was reserved.
Came in, and I was an odd man out, and they had to bring an extra chair because everyone sat around the table, but I sat between Jack Bartfield and Peter Kaiserpaar in that little space trying to hear what these guys are all talking about, right?
They're congratulating Jack and everything else and the drinks and everything else.
And I look up, and these two characters are standing out at the door trying to get in.
And the maitre d'ise is full, and I went.
And they like to let anybody in, right?
I wonder who the hell these characters are.
But it used to be an awful lot of fun.
And Tom Clark, who ran the book, I don't know if you want to tell him.
Chinese slow stuff.
Yes.
He was the expert on that.
Tom ran the book department, and he was a book man.
Yeah.
Tom, what was his name?
Clark.
C-L-A-R-K-E, I think it was.
Tom.
And Tom, if I was there, came in with Petey, would take us in fact, he said, this is coming up this month, next month, so forth.
And what was nice about all these fellows, they all took me along.
Hmm.
They educated me, told me what to look for.
You know it enough.
This is what's wrong with this.
This is what's wrong.
Jack used to take me in on bronzes, and he'd say, is that right or is it wrong?
Then he'd say, and I'd say something like this.
You know what he always did?
Wake up.
That's this.
This is this.
This is this, like this.
And then he'd walk over and he'd say, tell me about that one.
I couldn't afford the damn things, but he'd say, tell me about it.
Right?
He did that with his nephew.
He and Rudy Wonderlic went to these Western art museums, and they called out all, and you'd be surprised how many bad things they had.
It takes a real high
And I have books on the fakes.
Remington was faked early on already.
He was?
Oh, yeah, not just recently.
They're getting better.
But Remington was faked back in the 20s already.
Jeez.
So you're into art as much as... Well, I did.
Yeah.
Because I wanted to learn.
And Jack, because he had color play books, he was willing to take the time to teach.
Right?
And only if you handle it,
And this is a bookseller, right?
Jack was known for color plate books, sets, and Western Americana, whether it was bronzes or art.
And Jack probably handled more Audubon, the Elephant Folio, than any other dealer has ever handled, would ever handle again.
How did you get connected with him?
Because he was Peter Kieserkloff's good friend.
And so he taught you.
He was like a mentor in a way.
Fleming, John Fleming used to sit at 4 o'clock when they had drinks.
I had full run of John Fleming's library.
I could walk in at 10 o'clock in the morning, and he'd say, there it is.
She'd go, I will see you later.
I knew Thorne Weldon, which was before she's married.
She's in my book.
She's the only person I don't name, the only source.
She's the one that told me about Michael Davis in Haven or Moore.
at Thornwell and Nice Gal.
Yeah.
I don't know.
She martyred some Romanian who's a metals dealer or something.
She's in London now.
That's where I interviewed her, over in German Street in London.
Back in London again?
They built a house.
Oh, this is back.
I'm talking five, six years ago.
She worked for what dealer?
Oh, it's well in German Street.
No, I still have it here.
I have letters from Thornwell.
What the hell?
He was in botanical things more.
and I just was going through some stuff.
Something in Reed, maybe?
Yeah.
I know.
Do you want me to describe that book over there?
I've got my pen and I'm focused, perhaps.
Technically, that's what everyone will tell you is specialized, focused, specialized.
And as I mentioned to you, at one time I wanted to teach at the library school,
because we had a bookbinding company, you know, general bookbinding, and it's still in existence, but other people are running it.
I mean, I had one hell of a reputation, you know, from here to Stanford.
Sure.
And I wanted to teach the students in the library school.
Where was the school they wanted to teach at?
Oh, they were, Columbia had one, Western Reserve had one, Kent had one, Pittsburgh had one, Chicago had one.
They were all over.
And I wanted to teach them, because none of the librarians knew anything about bookbinding, and it was not a course taught.
They'll teach them the history of bookbinding.
They'll teach them cataloging.
They'll teach them all kinds of things, but they don't teach them bookbinding.
And I wanted to show them what the difference was between a good binding and a bad binding, and why sometimes you want to do this and why you want to do that.
And we did work for the public, the New York public.
John, I haven't seen him in years.
We went there, I did some work, and then another binder came in, and he said, oh, we'll do this free of charge.
And I said to John Baker.
John Baker.
Do you know?
No, but I don't know the name.
Yeah.
John Baker.
I talked to John Baker in New York.
I think he's retired now.
He'll remember me.
Because I said to him, John,
Can't do it.
Impossible.
John says, no, I've got to try him.
I said, that's okay, John.
No hard days.
And I came back, I think about six months later.
I said, John, how are we doing?
He said, I've been waiting for you.
You're going to do all my work again.
I said, did you check what I've been doing?
He says, yes.
Yes.
And I went back.
One time, I was coming through New York, just before John retired, and I went to New York Public, and I went down to the bookbinding department.
Now, I hadn't been there.
Seventy, seventy-four, seventy-three, somewhere in there.
This was eighteen years later.
And I walked in, in the bookbinding department downstairs, and a couple of the gals jumped up and ran over, and they said,
where have you been all these years?
And I said, what do you mean?
Sit down, we want to ask you some questions.
Then they ran over and got on the phone, and John came running down.
And he said, where have you been?
And I said, why?
He said, man, do we miss you?
Because you would sit down, and I would explain to him.
You know, most guys just want to sell and get out.
Now, if you've got a question, and you say to me,
I want to try to do this, what are my options?
I'll sit there, if you're a customer of mine, I'll say, here, you can do this, or you can do this, or you can do this.
You don't want to do that because of this.
You don't want to do this because of this.
And you say to them, here's where you are, right?
And most people appreciate that.
Sure.
Right?
Because you have to teach them.
They want to learn.
Most guys don't either know it or they want to keep running.
They've got to make the next step.
Time is money.
That's what they all say.
But time is money if you're doing the running.
But if you want a question answered, your time is not money.
I want that answer.
It's only when it's on my foot.
But they don't worry about the other guy.
And we all have to.
You know it as well as I do.
People have to teach you.
You can read all these goddamn books unless you've got a photographing memory until you actually handle it and somebody starts to tell you.
You've got to handle the goods.
You've got to handle the goods and somebody has to explain to you.
You can handle these books.
And you say, oh, this is a great copy.
This is a great copy.
I say, fine, take it.
Then you say to yourself, why the hell is this so dangerous?
This has got to be the best copy.
Sure.
And then you look at it and you say, why did you let me take that one?
Why didn't you take that one?
Oh, now you want to know.
Now I will explain it to you.
Why, this one is better than the one you grabbed.
Even though this one may look better.
May look better.
It's maybe not better.
You have to.
Somebody has to teach you.
I don't know.
I don't remember what your profession was, but somebody taught you, and they had to carry you along and revise and revise and revise and say, hey, you don't want to say it this way.
Try it this way.
Maybe it'll sound better.
Somebody had to work with you.
If they don't work with you, you'll feel it.
I do a lot of photography.
You have to work with a pro.
of somebody that's really going to teach you the tricks.
Right.
And that's what I believe when we did book running.
I'd rather make one call in the morning and one call in the afternoon, a good call, to teach the people something, because I figured if they talk, they talk.
You know, the first thing you said to me today, and I always like to come back to where I started, is that, you know, when everything is said and done, when the scorecards are tallied,
you want to be identified and remembered as a book buyer.
Oh, yeah.
So, I mean, so you are a book man.
I'm a book buyer.
I don't want to, I don't, don't tell me I was a machinist making nuclear parts for the submarines.
I don't give a damn about that.
I'm making, I'm in injection molding now.
I have my dad's folder yet.
When he died, I took it out of his pocket.
Uh-huh.
And I said to him, and don't you ever touch it.
I have his scissors.
I'm really impressed with how neat you are, how ordered you are.
This is a disaster.
This is the worst you... Well, this is because everything gets thrown in here at night.
I'm getting family history and my dad's folder.
Now, his folder, you don't have to.
You can just tell me what it is.
You know, the book finder has a bone folder.
Here's the scissors.
Now, you look at this pair of scissors, you say, this is an atrocious pair of scissors.
But this scissors, I can cut a 64th of an inch on a piece of paper.
What a wonderful book.
Now, his folder's got to be back.
My wife took it out of here.
She's dead.
You know, what's that?
That's a pipe.
Your father's?
No, I got Indian, Western.
You love this Indian stuff I can see.
I'm sure you want another one down there.
I'm sure you've got the thing safe someplace.
a match thing from World War I. But those are his scissors right there.
They look a little loose, actually, but I guess... But you can't duplicate that pair of scissors.
I mean, and I can cut paper like you wouldn't believe.
I'll be back looking so hot tonight.
Because that is a—this is for McCrea.
This is one of those—I don't know if you saw from, you know, these A-frames that the gooks used to wear, sorry?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
What the hell is it?
What is it?
What does it do?
This is brass.
You know, the gooks over there used to steal the brass journals out of the railroad cars.
Right.
They'd take the whole damn thing, you know, that block that you had the axle fighting on.
They'd steal that out, right, and then make stuff like this out of it.
It doesn't bother me, because that was always in there for years.
You'll find it.
I'm sure you put it someplace safe.
I do the same thing all the time.
But, um, there's three of us.
We fill the troops and fill the trains.
Sending it north.
Train never arrived.
The whole goddamn train disappeared.
Just disappeared off the face of the earth, right?
Disappeared.
Gone.
So we sent helicopters up right away.
Couldn't find the gun.
We had troops walking it.
Couldn't find it.
Weird day, one pilot who was sharpening with his observer saw a yellow line in the ground.
So we sent some troops up real quick.
And here the gooks had taken this damn train, put a switch in, and taken it into an old Jap cave.
Jeez.
Right?
Stripping it down.
Stripped the food and everything else out of it.
We kept checking.
We found there were an American sergeant and an American officer involved, rotating home.
They were on the boat home.
They landed.
They were on the plunked back.
Wow.
Court-martialed.
Right.
This is black marketeering and stuff, right?
Big time.
So they diverted the train?
They were in coots with these gooks.
Wow.
Diverted the all goddamn train.
Jesus.
Take a couple of hospital cars, you know, big train things off of a boat.
Put them in on the tracks.
Next morning they were gone.
The Koreans?
Oh, Koreans.
You never, never.
I was in Vietnam, and you didn't know which one was the north or the south.
They were all the same as far as we were concerned, you know.
The Koreans, I mean, 45, I'd be in Los Angeles, they said, curious, right?
All the sergeant and I always walked together, and we were right on the waterfront, kind of thing.
I mean, we had never got as close as you did to me before I got banged.
You didn't trust them?
All you can make is one mistake, and that's it.